[ Music ]
>> Lilou Mace: Hello
my go greeters,
Lilou here on the
beautiful island of Kauai.
This is a new video
for guide MTV.
An extraordinary video with
the delicious juicy Debra.
>> Debra Silverman: Debra
Silverman brought to you
by Colorado, Kauai,
you name it, I'm there.
>> Lilou Mace: I love it.
You're such a rock
star, astrologer,
traveling the world touring.
And really bridging, bridging
people with how do you --
how do you even define
your work?
>> Debra Silverman:
I bridge them
to the stars back to the earth.
My real passion is connecting
the most spiritual abstract
ideas back at the ranch in our
bodies, in our relationships.
Like, how do we make
that bridge?
There are so many
spiritual/smearitual people
out there.
And how do we embody it?
How do we make it practical?
So I bridge the stars
with the earth.
That's basically what happens
right here in aloha land.
Look. We have beauty,
magnificence,
and then we've got the laundry.
>> Lilou Mace: We so have
the laundry to take care of.
But we're really going to
go into the four elements
because this is a very Kauai.
I don't know if you've
ever been in Kauai.
This is definitely a place
-- a must visit place.
And the air, the fire,
the earth, the water are
so present, so vivid here.
>> Debra Silverman: This
is the Hawaiian culture.
I studied hula for many years.
And hula, the science of hula,
the magic of this land is
that the Hawaiian's live
in the land and they knew
that the wisdom came
through our feet,
through the Ina,
through the earth.
That the wisdom came
through the breath.
That it comes from the sun.
That we can't live without
the radiant fire of the sun.
And we have to have
our air, water, earth,
and fire to be able to be alive.
So really the Hawaiian
culture which was all oral,
they never wrote anything
down, they passed their stories
on by being able to have
relationships with the elements.
In fact, aloha means
to breathe together.
So here we are on
this kind island
and we have this
lucky time in history.
This is the most unbelievable
time, 2012, that we are alive
in an era where we have a chance
to actually see the
future coming into form.
At the same time we see
the past disintegrating.
We see the old structures
falling apart.
We talk about bridge
we're between worlds.
Worlds are colliding right now.
And the Hawaiian culture has
this very back to root system.
It's simple.
It's grounded.
How do we take care of
our family, the ohana,
they call it in Hawaiian.
How do we take care
of our bodies.
In Hawaii they love
to be outside
with the sun giving you kisses.
How do we take care
of our relationships?
The most important
conversations.
Do we know how to be
kind to each other.
That's very much part
of the Hawaiian culture.
But it's part of the
whole world right now.
This is the new era.
And we're in it right now.
I am. Are you?
>> Lilou Mace: I'm
totally feeling it.
And loving it.
And those conversations
are so important, I feel,
because it gives us elements.
Why is it so -- so let's --
should we go into the
different elements
or there's some more
understanding do we --
>> Debra Silverman: Well,
first let's do the
historical backdrop.
Like we are at a
critical time in history.
Why is spirituality
so popular right now?
Why everywhere you go is there
people watching your videos
and buying those books,
because we know we're
in this parodyne shift.
We don't really have language.
Even our parents or our
grandparents if we said to them,
look, it's not like
it used to be.
So even though they can't put
language to it everyone knows
that we're on this precipice
where things are
about to change.
It's scary.
And we're the ones that
are watching these videos
that are fascinated by the
spirit, that eat these books
and puts them in the side of
our bed and in our backpacks
because we know we're the ones
heralding in this next era.
So before we even get back
to basics, the elements,
first we have to know this
is the time in history
that everyone wanted to be here.
Nine million people.
Is that true?
>> Lilou Mace: Seven million.
>> Debra Silverman:
Seven million.
I love it.
See I'm adding people
to the equation
because the truth is
they are everywhere.
Everyone you ever knew is here.
That's my theory.
>> Lilou Mace: You're
counting the intangible.
>> Debra Silverman:
That's right.
The ones we can't see.
All those invisible spirits.
Everyone you ever knew is here.
We're on the edge of our
seats watching a time
in history we're going to see.
Will we turn this corner?
Will we actually make
it into the next era
that will be a positive story?
Or are we going to see a
disintegration and the ending
of a story where we
really are broken?
And my belief is,
it's a good ending.
I have a very positive optimist.
That's the nature of my work.
Giving us hope.
And saying no matter
how bad it gets,
now matter how scary you
might feel in your own life,
no matter how vulnerable you are
inside your own psyche this is
all part of the process
of giving birth.
And if you have never seen
a woman give birth before,
imagine being in a room
where you've never seen it
and you heard her screaming
and crying, and everything
in your body would
go into terror.
But in the truth if
we had perspective,
if we could see the long view
we'd go no, no, no, sit still,
take breath, trust,
because at the end
of this crying fit you're going
to see the most cutest
little thing you ever saw.
But who believes that?
So we're in a very similar
cycle on the planet, 2012.
Everything we ever thought
of what should be doesn't
quite look right, right now.
But we feel this anticipation
of something burgeoning,
something growing,
something exciting.
But we can't put our hand on it.
We can't touch it yet.
So all of us listening
and interested in this,
we're the ones that are
responsible, the stewards,
to bring in the new
by having faith.
And it's a very interesting
words,
the nature of all my work
is turn on your observer,
look at the long view, and
know that always in history
across all times we've
come to these moments
where everything is
about the change.
And if we'd only knew that
it was all going turn okay we
could relax.
But instead there's
always great chaos
at turning times of change.
And so the gift of being on this
island is take a breath, trust,
mother earths got your back.
There's no reason to be scared.
Isn't that a nice thought.
>> Lilou Mace: Yeah.
We call need that.
For now I'm going to bring
you closer because we need
to squeeze in this little video.
>> Debra Silverman: That's
my favorite thing, cuddling.
That's what's going
to have to happen.
79 billion people we
just added to the earth.
So there is so many people
here we're got to bump
into each other to figure out
how we're going to get along,
and cuddle and snuggle
and get nice
because there's so
many people here.
Have you noticed
they're everywhere.
I love when people say to me as
a psychologist, as a therapist,
they say, I really
don't like people.
And I'm like, good luck.
Because everywhere
you go they're there.
This is a time in history where
we really have to understand
that everyone is so different.
And if only we had compassion.
As an astrologist
this is my gift.
We're all so different.
And that's where the
four elements come in.
We have very different
personality types.
And some really don't
like each other.
And the question is can we
have the big picture in focus.
Like you think God
made a mistake
when he made what's her name?
No. She's part of the plan.
Sorry about that but it's true.
Everyone of your family members,
all the ones that
really bug you.
The people that you
really find offensive.
That's part of the plan.
It's not a mistake.
It's a radical thought.
>> Lilou Mace: Yeah.
>> Debra Silverman: And
it creates compassion.
>> Lilou Mace: And by
embracing our awkwardness
or how different we are from
others then we are just being
and we're not forcing things.
It just flows and everything
starts to fall into place.
>> Debra Silverman: It's true.
And think about the
person that really bugs you
or the family member that always
irritates you or the mother
or father that really
bugged you.
It's true.
They really do bug you.
You can't take -- you
can't be spiritual
and go no, no, love everyone.
No. That person bugs you.
But how do I have the right
relationship with that person
if nothing else, in my head.
Like how do I give thanks
that they exist even though
they really are strange.
I don't have to have
dinner with them.
I don't have to invite
them over into my house.
But I do have to
internally come to peace
with this is the
nature of the beast.
This is the nature
of this planet.
We're all on one
planet at the same time.
And the question is who has the
wisdom to accept the differences
and find the right
relationships.
Which can mean never
talking to them.
I'm not one who says
love everyone.
Good luck.
I mean that was Jesus.
He was one of our archetypes
that represented
unconditional love.
It's something to aspire
towards, but back at the ranch
when someone bugs you the
best thing you can do is turn
on your observer and go wow.
I'm turning into
that meanny again.
What can I do?
Take a breath.
Open up my heart.
Slow down a little bit.
Make some space.
And then be able to find
the right relationship
because that's what's going
to be required in these times.
>> Lilou Mace: And all
the prophesies really
where speaking about
those times.
Did they all have happy
endings or is it your own sense?
>> Debra Silverman:
That's my take on it.
There's a very strong
under current
in the unconscious right
now on this planet.
Especially in Hollywood
where we saw that film.
>> Lilou Mace: Oh, yeah, 2012.
>> Debra Silverman: 2012.
That there's this dark side.
That we're going to somehow
or other destroy ourselves.
And that's what the unconscious
would love us to believe.
That's the dark side
of this planet.
But the truth is there's
an invisible force field.
Of course, there's a
creative intelligence.
And we can't understand it.
Because if we -- I
always say if they were
so intelligent why
are they so mean?
Why would they allow
this much free will?
But the reality is there's
a design working itself out.
And there is an organic mastery.
There's a creative intelligence
far beyond my understanding.
As an astrologer
I can say to you
without question every
single chart I look at,
every single chart,
there is a design.
You are playing your part.
It may not seem at
all comfortable.
You may feel as though
you're somehow awkward
as you were saying
where you might feel
like you're missing the boat.
I always hear this.
Why am I not doing
what I came to do?
Why do I not have a partner?
Because maybe this life you are
learning about being single.
Or why am I in this
relationship?
I can't get out of it.
Well, maybe you are
here to learn
about the karma of
relationships.
But I guarantee you everything
is working out as it should be
because that's what you learn
when your study astrology.
That it's masterfully
done from the top down.
There's a brilliant design.
But from the bottom up,
from the human dimension,
as far as our way of relating
we are a little goofy.
Raise your hand if you're goofy.
Oh, look, everyone is
raising their hands.
So we have these
quirky personalities
but at the soul level, at
the quintessential level
of the designer of
the divine creator.
If you look outside you
see there is absolute
humbling mastery.
But from the human dimension
with our minds we're confused.
And it's painful.
And it's awkward.
And that's okay.
It's like saying why are
kids so mean to each other?
Why do they bump
into each other?
Why do they trip?
Why can't they walk
the first time?
Because they are evolving.
But if you're an adult and you
have the wisdom to witness that
and you say, oh, I have
so much compassion,
look they fell down again.
Look they're grabbing
each others hair.
Can I just help you?
Can we not sit so
close together,
you two, you don't get along.
It's okay though.
Why don't you go
in the other room.
Or why don't we talk about it.
So there is this natural
dynamic in the human condition.
That we are funny, awkward even.
What's the word, uncomfortable.
And then there's the divine part
where we're absolutely
beautiful.
And you look in the eye of
a baby you've never seen
and you think it's yours.
You're like look at that soul.
So there's this conflicting
contrasting reality
between the divine and the
stars and the perfect heavens
and then back at the ranch
the pollution, the confusion,
the money, the politics.
It's ridiculous and
they coexist.
And it's only from the
observers point of view
which is what astrology does
is we step back and go oh.
From the observers point of
view you see the human condition
and you go they're cute.
They're trying.
They're sincere.
They all have a heart.
And they're all evolving
at a very slow pace.
Well, not all of them.
Some of you watch and this
has done all the work you can.
Spiritually ambitious,
starving to learn more,
following through, taking
care of your body, your diet,
your health, your kids,
and some of you are sitting
on the couch going do I
have to go do that exercise?
I really don't want to eat that.
I just want the potato chip.
So there is a different range
of how much will do we have.
How much discipline do we have.
How much ambition do we have
to get ourselves driven.
And there's no judgments.
Some people have come
through a series of lifetimes
or whatever the word,
karma, or their childhood
where they're just tired.
And others come in
going I can't wait,
I can't wait, I'm so excited.
And my job as an astrologer is
to say you're just
right where you are.
If I can help move you just
a little bit more towards the
aspiration of your soul
then I'll have done my job.
But if you're really tired
and you're really weary
and you're feeling really sad
then let me just let you rest
with me.
You know, let me just touch you.
Because I can't change
your dark sadness
but I can certainly
be compassionate.
And that's really all that
this planet is starving for,
is the compassion
of wisdom to know
that we're all in this together.
And it's not easy.
>> Lilou Mace: With
our unique imprint,
with our unique blue print.
>> Debra Silverman: So
let's talk about that.
So water people, they get
depressed because of this story.
They're listening and
going it's so true.
I don't really like it here.
I just want to stay
home and I feel so sad.
All of a sudden I'm
getting tired.
Where is my cigarette.
I just need a cup of coffee.
Those are the ones
that are sensitives.
And they want go away.
And they want to be alone.
And they need to be quite.
And they want to have music on.
And they just want to
have their family around.
And people bug them.
But their gift in the name
of this big change we're
in is just to be still.
And to except that
meditation has a role.
And sometimes we
don't have to do.
Those are the people that really
-- you love to cuddle with them.
You love to be at their house.
They want to cook for you.
They want to make
you feel comforted.
They have a very gentle spirit.
They don't talk as fast as me.
They're much slower.
They're very kind.
They love animals and kids
and people that don't talk.
And they want to turn the
volume off on the television
and the music because
they just want quite.
And those people get
prone to depression.
And addiction.
Because they can't find
comfort in this world.
That's water.
Scorpio, Cancer, Pisces.
Then the air people, like
myself, they love to talk.
So they're the one
that is entertain us.
They think about things all day.
They go on to the computer and
they get books and they read
and they watch the U
tubes and they can't wait
to get information and they
call people up and they forget
who they called and they
don't know where they're going
and they can't find their
keys, and they're air heads.
And they're the very fun
entertaining characters.
And they're function
on the planet right
now is to stimulate us.
To ask the questions.
To have the conversations.
To say if you two aren't getting
along let me just ask you a
few questions.
Can we talk about this?
First get it where water is
like if you two aren't
getting along let's just leave.
We'll just be quite.
We don't need to
be around people.
So there's a difference
in the response.
That's the air people are
Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius.
And they just love information.
And they love Facebook.
And they love the internet.
And they love telephones.
And they're the ones
that entertain themselves all
day inside their own heads.
So they're fun factor.
Then third category is earth.
That's Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn,
and they're very grounded.
So they're the ones
that get things done.
They build things.
That I have make things.
They count the money.
They get the schedule.
They get structure.
They love to have the food.
They want to know
if it is organic.
where it was built.
They look at the labels
and they're walking
through whole foods.
And you're like,
can we just buy it?
Nope. You've got to read.
Oh, look, that's not right.
They have incredible detail.
They're always trying to get
things done and their value
in this life is to be
able to be practical.
So if the first category water
is compassion and kindness
and meditation and stillness.
And the second category,
air, is stimulating thoughts.
Getting us all really active
like I'm doing right
here right now.
Making your mind work.
And the earth people are trying
to keep the whole
world glued together.
Like do we have money?
Is the insurance in place?
Are your tires good?
How's the car?
Really that's what we're going
to talk about, says the air
to the earth, that
sounds so boring.
But they're trying to keep
the boring world intact.
And the last category is fire.
And that's Aries, Leo, and Sag.
And they're the ones that go,
oh, I have this amazing idea.
I can't wait to travel all over
and get everybody inspired.
She's smiling because
we know what she is.
And they want to get
everybody activated.
And they want to get everybody
really honest and not talk
about anything but really
gets people inspired.
So it's spirituality.
It's physicality.
It's athletics.
It's entertainment.
It's standing on the stage
and going wake up everyone.
>> Lilou Mace: It's artists too.
>> Debra Silverman: Artists.
Passionate characters
who really have a desire
to impact the world
without it being sleepy.
So you can see how the
first category water
and fire can be conflicted.
Because the water
is going shhhhh
and the fire is getting
the music up and wants
to have a party and
drink a little bit more
and eat a little bit more.
And let's travel a little bit.
And the air person is
going that's a great idea.
And the earth is going how
much is this going to cost?
How long is this going to take?
And is there any value
to what you're doing?
So these are the four
personality types.
Fire is clearly here
to get us inspired
and to say do not get limited.
That's fire.
Like if anything goes
wrong it's all okay.
Because we'll turn it around.
Earth person is going how
much is it going to cost?
They air person is going
can we research this?
And the water person
is going I'm scared.
We need therapy.
Can we get some help?
Let's meditate.
We'll just get quite and
we'll get to heal this.
So there are all these
different personality types
and you can see them vividly.
But the question is
which one are you.
And how can you get comfortable
with the ones that aren't you.
Because that's the
big challenge.
>> Lilou Mace: And can
we be a bit of it all?
Because --
>> Debra Silverman: Yes.
>> Lilou Mace: -- we
recognize ourselves --
>> Debra Silverman:
You can't live
without water, air,
earth, or fire.
You can't live wouldn't
water every day.
You can't live without air
for longer then a few minutes.
You can't live wouldn't food.
You can't live without the sun.
So yes, we're all four of them.
But there's a predominance.
And the question is
which one are you?
How do you get comfortable?
If you're kid is one of those
kids that talks all the time
and you keep telling your kid
to stop you're squishing them.
If you're kid doesn't talk
-- that would beer error.
If your kid doesn't
talk and he's very quite
and he's very gentle and he gets
sensitive and he cries easily
and you tell him to stop
crying you're squishing him.
So the question is how do we
cultivate permission to say
to each of our children,
to each of our spouses,
like, I want you to be you.
I don't want to change you.
But I really would
love to understand you.
That's the thing that I
love most about my work.
Is going deep and really
understanding who are you.
What are you made out of?
What's the nature of your kind?
And how do I tickle you to
realize you're just funny.
I mean, you're not as
serious as you think you are.
Everybody gets so caught in
their dramas or their story
or their accomplishments and
their success and their failure
and how do I look honey.
You know, jeez, really, is that
what we're going to talk about?
Let's go on the inside.
Let's take a little
window view of your soul
which doesn't care how
much money you made.
It doesn't care what
you look like.
It just wants to
know do you love?
And are you loved?
And do you know how to
cuddle with the dog?
That's really what the
soul wants to know.
The soul is an animal
and animals really
shows up in souls.
But the soul just wants
to know are you kind?
Like, can you be compassionate
for the human condition?
Can you sit quitely
with your own thoughts?
Can you rest in the
empty and not feel
like you're not doing anything?
Can you not judge yourself?
That's one of the biggest things
I see all the time in my work.
People come to see me,
I look at their chart,
I start describing it and
they're like, oh, you got me.
But they're not saying
it like, do you like me?
They're more like I
don't know why I do that.
So I'm thinking of a
client right now who --
she came to see me and
she really had a pattern
of being successful, hugely
successful in this life.
But never feeling like she was
ever getting anything done.
This is earth.
So accomplishment.
So oriented to get
the goal done.
But never satisfied?
And never feeling, you know,
the feeling of oh I'm so --
so I got to say to her
hold on, can we make a list
and see what you've done and
take moment from the souls point
of view to say thank you.
And then all of a sudden
she relaxed and I was
like you could do
nothing else in this life,
you could just stop right here
and you've accomplished
huge feats.
Now the question is can
you take the inner journey
and be at peace?
That's when the real
challenge begins
because that's what
the planet will demand.
We are going to be
getting a thinner
and thinner amount
of distractions.
We're not going to have
the same abundance we used
to have financially to
fly all over the world
and change our food and be able
to get in our cars and drive.
We're going have to
come back to basics.
Water, air, earth, and fire.
How do I deal with quiet?
Can I rest in the
stillness, that's water.
What are my conversations
like with my relationships?
Do I tell the truth
to my partner?
Do I know how to communicate in
a way that I can say, you know,
this really bugs me about you
but I want so much to be close.
Can we talk about this without
me getting you mad at me.
Wow. There's an art form.
Can I actually deal with my body
and treat it well and know what
to eat and not be compelled
to eat what's not good for me
because I'm so emotionally
distraught
that I've actually
respecting my body
and eating healthy food
because I choose too.
That's radical.
Because the impulse on this
planet with the under belly
of thinking something
so wrong here.
I don't think people admit it.
But unconsciously at the subtle
levels there's a deep worry
that everyone suffers
from like are we going
to make it around this corner?
Is America going to fall apart?
Are we going to have an
economy that's going to survive?
>> Lilou Mace: But also
with that comes, well,
then I might as well
just give up.
>> Debra Silverman: Right.
And so many people
have lost hope.
People -- see the people you
speak to and we're talking
to now there's an excitement
about wanting to be awake.
Like let's tell the truth.
Let's be conscious.
Let's see if we can't help.
>> Lilou Mace: And
then you get closer.
>> Debra Silverman: I love it.
>> Lilou Mace: Because she keeps
on -- Debra keeps on going --
>> Debra Silverman:
I'm bringing her close.
So there's a whole bunch of
people that are watching this
that are generally
interested and able to find it
in themselves to read
the books, do the work,
nd eat the healthy
food for a while.
But then they suffer
because they think
that they're not really
getting enough done.
Like did I really help?
Am I really making a difference?
Especially men.
That's even harder.
The women feel powerful.
That we're contributing.
But the men feel like, really,
have I really made
a difference there?
Is this planet going to be
ruined because I didn't know
where my leadership was?
I didn't know what I could do
to make a difference
to the economy?
Make a difference
to the environment?
So there's a despondency
or depression
but they don't say it.
And what I want to say is that's
not your job on the outer world
to change the furniture
or rearrange the ecology.
Look when your on this island
and you see mother earth
so happy, it's organic.
This is happening because
it's a natural flow.
We are meant to be in
distress right now.
All the profits predicted this.
We're not -- nothing is wrong.
It's just that analogy, if
you saw a woman giving birth
and you didn't know, can
you imagine being in a room
where she is screaming
and yelling
and she's got this
thing on her tummy.
And it looks so weird.
Do you think anybody in the room
would have the wisdom to say no,
no, honestly, take
breath, it's okay.
So similarly we get
this impulse,
particularly the male
side in all of us
who want to make difference.
And that's important to be an
activist and to do something
in the world that
you love to do.
But just know that at the
highest level there's an organic
out working here
that is occurring
because you're studying,
you're reading,
you're consciousness is
shifting, you're wanting
to make a difference
whether it's raking,
whether it's helping the
neighbor, whether it's going
and volunteering, whether
it's having a friend you
like whose three years old
that you give cuddles to,
whether it's taking care of
your kid and saying I really get
who you are and the
kid walks to school
that morning going
my mom loves me.
Like that's the smallest --
those are the smallest
deepest impacts
that you can make
on this planet.
And we really can't at the
moment figure out yet how
to change the climate.
Is there people making efforts?
Do we want to give
our money to that?
Yes. Are there people
who know their calling?
But not everyone has a
deep profound calling to go
on the television and
do guide radio or do --
like we happen to have a
particular destiny line,
lucky us.
But there are so many students
I have who passionately study
and they don't feel like
they are doing enough.
And I always want to
say, like, you are.
Just by your sincere interest
in being kind and taking care
of the laundry and being back
at the ranch with simplicity,
and making fun of yourself
and finding the joy.
What a gift to be enjoyed.
But it's not easy when
the under current --
I mean, do you feel it?
Are you aware of that --
your mood is a Scorpio.
You must have a sense.
You must have a sensitivity
to that darker side.
>> Lilou Mace: Yes.
I do and it's I think we all do.
And that it's -- we have
to really be with it.
And it's good to face it also.
It's empowering to face it.
As it inspires me to
go further and to --
it gives me a lot of energy too.
So good or bad -- a lot
of people say, well,
good or bad at the end you
just have to see it as it is.
And not put so much emotion.
>> Debra Silverman: So
when there's depression
or when there's sadness
or when there's, you know,
fear we just be honest.
This is the spiritual
path in its truest.
You face it and then you use
it as motivation to get up
and take another breath.
And say today I'm going
to put some music on.
I'm going go outside and I'm
going to find some friend.
I'm going to put my drums on
I'm going put my dance shoes on.
Whatever it takes
to shift the energy.
So yes there's an under current.
And yes we have to power
to change the energy.
Which is what I do all day.
Every where I go my chance
to see who I can tickle.
Who I can make giggle.
How I can find some little
kid that I can smile at.
Like, if we're going to spend
the next how many million years
on this planet why not activate
by being the one that blesses.
You know, finding out where
I can actually contribute
by being myself.
So if it's being
quite then be quite
and let there be a vibration
that comes off the water people.
The Cancers, the
Pisces, the Scorpios.
They don't have to talk.
And they can snuggle.
And they can care for
the ones they love.
And they can put their
arms and touch them.
We love being touched
if we're water signs.
And if it's air people then
you're the ones who are suppose
to go on the internet and
send those funny little cards
and send the little
things in the mail
with the stamp and
the stickers on.
And go on-line and figure
out who you can talk
to today on the telephone.
Then communicate with us.
Give us the voice of happiness.
Show us that you care.
And if it's earth go ahead
garden your heart out.
Go figure out how
you can make money.
And share your money
and contribute
and really work and
love your work.
Great. And if it's
fire then inspire us.
And get in your body and
make sure your physical.
It's very important
for fire people
to make sure every day they
move energy through their body.
Sexual energy, physical
energy, sports, you know,
making sure that we -- we
each have a role by nature
of our chart and
our personality.
But it's the curious
part that we judge
or get uncomfortable thinking
that, oh, I talk to much.
And you're to excitable.
And, oh, that one he's
just a stick in the mud.
And she's so depressed.
Like, why would we want to judge
the most instinctual natural
nature of this beautiful planet
because we don't think
it's the way it should be.
The mind is the culprit.
If there's one contribution
that I can say that I would pray
that in the wisdom of the future
as the profits become more
and more visible and they give
their voice louder and louder
and the waves of the
future of 2020-2030,
that the mind will be obedient.
It will no longer think it's the
voice of reason that tells you
to get up in the morning that
you should should should.
You're not good enough.
Instead it will say,
no, we're okay.
We'll have this very kind voice.
Wouldn't that be cool.
>> Lilou Mace: And
it's up to us, I guess,
is there some things
that you also recommend
to earth, fire, water, people?
>> Debra Silverman:
So good, yes.
So for -- it's a great question.
So for water people it's
being able to do meditation
and put on soft music.
There's some great
mantras out there.
To do their yoga.
To learn how to find
peace in the quite?
And to do it regularly
as a practice.
For air people they've got to
journal and they have to talk.
And they have to find places
where they can learn the
skill in relationship.
They do not keep
their mouths shut.
Because air people
can stop talking.
They get to a certain
point where they feel
like no ones really
listening and they hold back.
So it's very important
to journal
to keep talking to writing.
For earth people
it's very important
to take care of the land.
And to take care of the food.
And to teach us about
organic food.
how to eat properly.
And how to take care
of our money.
And how to share the money.
How not to get so into,
you know, hoarding
but actually contributing.
So that's a practice
for an earth person.
Where am I giving?
Who do I share with?
Have I cleaned my closets?
Have I taken care of the car?
Those practical things
are done with beauty
and then you're giving.
And the fire people
it's physical.
Like you really need to move
energy through your body.
It's a practice.
If a fire person is not
excited, they're not laughing,
they're not having a party,
they're not indulging a little
bit then something is wrong
and their fire goes out.
So yes, there's very
practical ways
to keep your element healthy.
And that's part of my work.
Part of my life's work.
>> Lilou Mace: But is
there some practices
so that we can get some of
-- because it feels like more
and more of this world
is becoming holistic
and we're aware of
everything really.
Is there some ways
to get more fire --
to get more like air
for a fire person?
>> Debra Silverman: Yes.
>> Lilou Mace: Or water?
>> Debra Silverman: So good.
Okay. So that's a
great question.
>> Lilou Mace: Any more balance?
>> Debra Silverman: Right.
So if you don't have
water you can't cry.
If you find yourself
emotionally, you know,
kind of flat lined or depressed
then you're job is to open
up your emotional body.
Like I encourage water
people to watch sad films.
Let themselves cry.
Stop the film.
Take a breath.
Don't get lost in depression.
Know how to moderate.
There's got to be
a knob for people
that suffer from depression.
They get so indulgent.
It's like when I'm
working with a client
and I say do you cry easily and
if they say yes I'll say good.
You cry during this session,
they always cry during
the session.
But keep talking.
I don't want you to
get lost in your tears.
If someone says no in a session
I'll say to them I'm going
to help you touch those feelings
because you've gotten turned
into ice, water has gotten numb.
And I will help them
cultivate the missing element.
If it's air and they've stopped
talking the magical formula
for air people is
to ask questions.
Learn to sit in front
of someone --
because air people
don't like to talk --
when they're missing air they go
to a party they don't
want to talk at all.
Can we go home now?
I don't want to be here.
People bug me.
But if you want to
cultivate air you say,
tell me about your childhood.
And as soon as you
ask a question.
I was telling this to my son
when he was young, I said,
here's how you get a girl.
Just asked questions
and they'll answer.
And then he came home one day
and he said, mom, it's working.
But they never ask me anything.
Because people tend to talk
once you give them a chance
to talk they forget.
So one of the short ways
to get a conversation going
if you don't have air is
simply to ask genuine questions
and then be prepared
for people to talk.
But that's a great medicine
for air if you're missing it.
And if you're missing
earth then go clean.
Then make it a spirit -- and
I tell clients you're going
to go -- I'm not going to see
you again until you go home
and clean up your closet.
Because while all that
clutter is in your world
if you don't have earth
and you're not taking care
of the practical world
it's going to interfere
with your manifestation,
with money, with success
because you've got clutter.
So that's an earth exercise.
Take care of your food.
Take care of your closets
and your practical world.
And fire people I say listen,
you guys have got to exercise.
Fire is the only element
that it gets energy
from spending energy.
Fire people get board
and they get depressed
when they don't move energy.
But when they move energy
they get more energy.
They don't get tired.
They get more energy
from moving energy.
It's the opposite
of the rest of us.
So if they're not
moving then they're going
to find themselves depressed
and when fire people get
depressed they get fat.
And they indulge.
And they drink to much.
And they become addicts.
Because they just just want to
have a party all by themselves.
They'll do a party
but no one is there.
So they have to learn moderation
with fire that's a big exercise
and probably the physical
exercise of pushing energy
out will really help get
them from being stuck.
So yes in my life's work what
I do with people in all the,
you know, I work as
a psychotherapist.
So people come to see me.
And I have their chart.
And I figure out
what's the constitution.
Like what's your
natural beingness.
And then if I see you blocked --
if I see somewhere you're not
being yourself then I just
as you questioned me I
give them the solution,
like here's your homework.
And then I won't work with
them if they don't do it.
Because I am really interested
in changing peoples lives
and not just talking about it.
>> Lilou Mace: But the
thing that I get from you
and something that I
feel we should already --
when we stand in our own power
and we're being who we're meant
to be there is a certain
then level of people
or I guess you attract also a
certain quality or some people
that because this is
what you're committed to
and you have set a
certain standard.
If I should --
>> Debra Silverman: It's true.
Just like you are drawing these
fascinating people to interview
because of the level of
your intense joy and passion
for what you do, you draw people
who are joyfully
passionately doing what they do.
We like vibration.
It's really true.
You know, I get fed up
with all the spiritual --
I call it spiritual/smearitual.
Like you are what you eat.
No. How about you
create your own reality.
Think positive.
I'm like, you know,
let's be real.
So there's a definite truth
to you -- this one's true.
What you vibrationally put
out in the world will
come back to you.
That's not a
spiritual/smearitual,
that's a fact.
So keep your energy in
a focused way genuine
and find your passion and
then your find those people.
I draw them like candy.
I find the coolest --
I say I have a magnet
in my belly button
that's my big joke.
I don't really have a
magnet in my belly button
but I draw the coolest people
because vibrationally
that's what I'm looking for.
That's what I'm radiating.
And everywhere I go it's
just a chance for me to see
who can I find that's a little
bit sleepy that I can go, hello.
And then as soon as they wake up
they go I'm so glad you're here.
So people that are
lonely the quickest way
out of loneliness is go give.
Go find someone that
you know is lonely.
If we only weren't scared
or been embarrassed
by our humanness.
That's one of my gifts.
Is I am so honest
about how funny I am.
Or quirky.
Or whatever.
I've got all these, I'm a small
personality if you noticed.
Joke. That was a joke.
I've got this big personality
and as a result I draw
people to feel safe with me.
Because the secret
is to not judge.
Like the quirkier you are --
even the people I don't like,
part of me wants to go
sneak in and go really?
Like, tell me how
you're thinking.
And that genuine interest puts
me into the voice of compassion.
And the next thing you know
I'm drawing the coolest people
because of the compassion.
That's really the big magnet.
Can you love?
Who are you in love
with in your life?
It could be a dog, it
could be your partner,
it could be your
grandma who died.
It doesn't matter but you've
got to think of someone
who made your heart go -- and
as soon as you're in that space
of genuine enthusiasm
for this place that's
when the magic begins.
And that's basically when I
feel like I'm a fire starter.
Like I have a lot
of fire in my chart.
You probably can't notice.
And I start the fire and
I put it under their chair
and I go, now, come on.
And they go what?
Because I'm trying
to say to them you --
this is only one life.
I don't know -- I do believe
in past lives personally
but you can't really
prove any of that.
What we do know is
this is a short movie.
And we're at 2012.
And it's a full moon today.
It will be a fool
moon next month.
It will be a fool moon
every time the sky reaches
that peak experience where
the energies are all rising up
and the water is rising.
We to -- are we sleepy?
Did we forget the
privilege of being here?
Like this is a breath of life.
And in the process
of being alive
in a lifetime you
have the opportunity
to see who you can touch.
And it doesn't have to be in
a big giant glamorous way.
It can just be as simple
as you made your cat
feel so good today.
Or you made the person
sitting next to you go I was
so glad you were here.
Thanks for being here.
I feel so much better.
That's my invitation
to everyone.
Can people walk away having
seen you and said, wow,
that was such a great
conversation.
That's what happened
when I met Sting.
When we finished the
session at the end he said
to me I haven't had one
of these conversations.
When you finish talking
to someone and you go
like you're such
a good listener.
That's the other art.
If you want to know how to bless
for all four elements, listen.
Stop the noises inside
your head.
We're back to the mind.
And actually hear
the person talking.
And let your heart open.
And feel your body
tingle and hear the birds.
And all of a sudden you're in
the present moment going, wow.
I'm alive.
And I've only got so much time
before this movie is over.
>> Lilou Mace: Because
in the case
of Sting what was there for him?
Why? What was he --
>> Debra Sivlerman: I think
we just genuinely had a
soul connection.
I mean we do.
We are friends.
And so when you're with
someone and you aren't wowed by,
their not pretty or they're so
pretty or they're so successful
and they're some --
and you're just simply
with someone I find the
funniest people tickle me.
Like, it doesn't require fame.
But in that case when Sting
and I met we genuinely
had a friendship.
It's that simple.
And because I was guileless
or I was was without ego
in my genuine appreciation
of him
and so was he we became friends.
The fact that he's
Sting is a small detail.
I've always impressed that the
American culture is so captured.
I find this -- I would love to
do a whole psychological study
on what is celebritism.
What part of us super
imposes ideals
on another and makes them grand.
I do it to my best friends.
I think everyone of my best
friends are a rock star.
My friend you met today.
I think she is a rock star.
I do. And so I treat
her like rock star.
And I can't wait to be with her.
And I listen to what she says.
And I'm captured by her beauty.
As I am her four-year-old
daughter
who I can't wait to see.
So it's the enthusiasm of
the privilege of being alive
in this time when we are
at this critical junction
to see can this lifetime,
can the experience
of being human be lifted
up to a higher frequency
where we're actually conscious
enough to choose to be alive,
to choose to honor this temple
called the body, to take respect
for this emotional
body that's so tender
and not be rejecting my
sadness but actually embrace it.
To honor the fact that I have
sexual energy and I'm alive
and I've got chi and
I'm not afraid of it.
Wouldn't it be crazy
if -- and money.
That I could take my money
and know how to share it
because I wasn't so -- this
is the future coming soon
to our neighborhood.
We're turning the corner.
We're about there.
We're at this very
unusual critical moment
where we're going do you
think we're going to make it?
I hear this all the
time in my own heart.
I don't know if it's just me but
it seems to me that there's an
under current of dissatisfaction
and disappointment.
And at the top level of that
just like there would be
if you were in a room
hearing a woman give birth.
You're like this is wrong
but on the flip side
of that there is this possible
miracle where we turn a corner
and we suddenly realize
the old ways of us being
and not knowing how to stay
awake in the middle of the movie
and not knowing how to be in
the kindness that's so old.
One day our kids are
going to say to us,
our great great great
grandkids that are coming up,
they're going to say there
was a time in history
when other parents used
to fight with guns.
And they would hurt each other.
And they didn't even know why.
They would just take
these things called war
and they'll go, wow, can you
imagine how uncomfortable
that was?
And now we know how to coexist.
Coming soon.
That's what you feel here.
>> Lilou Mace: Yes.
That's what we feel
here definitely.
We're more into the
present moment
because those elements are so
vivid and sometimes in towns
and cities and when we have our
day jobs it's a bit more rough
and I know a lot of
teachers say, well,
we can find this every where.
But it's true some places are
more beautiful than others.
And it brings us
directly in that moment.
>> Debra Silverman: And that
cease why people like Rom Doss
or Eckhart Tolle or
all the great teachers,
why we sit with them.
Because suddenly we realize
when we're in their presence.
Like, oh, just simple
presence is enough.
And as soon as you -- that's
why we watch these videos.
That's why we turn on the radio.
It's so poplar.
These books are so like addicted
to remind us with all the chaos
that there's this inner
world called the soul
where it's just a breath.
And it's so simple.
And it's as simple as being able
to realize that your bedroom
and your sheets and your
pillow and that hot shower
in the morning and that
yummy toast that smells
so good is absolutely
your doorway to gratitude.
>> Lilou Mace: To
the present moment.
>> Debra Silverman: And that's
really my deepest calling.
You know, I'm not so good
at it, just so you know,
to be perfectly honest.
I am getting older --
>> Lilou Mace: I saw
you on the beach.
You are so good at it.
>> Debra Silverman: Yeah.
Well, because I've learned --
I've learned as I've
gotten older --
this is the gift
of turning older.
Everyone needs to know this.
I saw this on Facebook.
Someone said what will
you tell your kids
if you could as an adult.
And I'd say the older
you get the better.
Like I am now my mid 50s
and what I know is
I really appreciate
that salt water in my mouth.
And I really appreciate
when the sun comes up
and I see the sky change colors.
Like, it used to be
-- you're so busy.
What do you do when you're
in your 20s and you're trying
so hard and you're
running around
and suddenly you get older
and you go let's slow down.
The turtle.
My gift that gave
me this turtle.
I was swimming in the ocean
-- this is a crazy story.
I couldn't stand up and I
was holding on to the rocks.
And I held on to this rock,
I thought it was a rock,
and then his little hand hit me?
>> Lilou Mace: No.
>> Debra Silverman: And
I started screaming.
And it was a turtle this big.
And I got out of the ocean
I went, I got the message.
Slow down Deb.
I was touched by a turtle.
>> Lilou Mace: Very cool.
>> Debra Silverman: And it's the
elemental magic of the turtle --
America was named
by the American Indians
as turtle island.
And the gift of that is they
lived, the American Indians
on the soil with the elements
and the four directions
as the centerpiece
of their universe.
And the decisions were
made by the tribe.
And we knew how to
listen to each other.
And we ate together.
And it was a completely
different world.
Back to turtle.
>> Lilou Mace: Back
to turtle world.
>> Debra Silverman:
I was so gifted
to be able to touch that turtle.
And I continue to carry that.
So my prayer for all of us in
the name of the elements is
to let the water, the
stillness of the water
to know how to start the day.
Listen how we start our day.
You walk into the bathroom.
You brush your teeth.
You go to the bathroom.
You take a shower.
The first thing everyone
does is water as soon
as we enter the first
part of the day.
Then we go on the computers
and go what's my day
about again I can't remember,
where's my day timer.
Air. We get telephone, we
get the computer going.
And we start thinking.
Then we get to the earth part
of the day, what's my job again?
Oh, yeah, I got an
interview to do.
I've got to check
things off my list.
I've got to make sure I've
got all my money, all my lines
in order, all my little things.
And then we get to the
fire part of the day.
We get to have some fire water,
wine, at the end of the day.
We celebrate sitting around
the table, around the fire,
and we share our stories and go,
you won't believe
what happened to me.
That's the fire.
So there's a natural
rhythm to the four elements.
It happens every where.
Nine months in a womb, water.
First breath, air.
Then the next 18 years
earth, we put them in school
and teach them how
to do whatever we teach
them in that earth cycle.
And then fire cycle, we
get to the second, third,
fourth part of our life, the
end, and we get to go celebrate
and we have fire cycles
as elders where we travel
and enjoy ourselves and we
feel like we can retire.
So they go in cycles,
the four elements.
Everywhere you look.
But we forgot.
>> Lilou Mace: Was I being
present to those and learning
to appreciate them then the more
we enrich our experience too.
>> Debra Silverman: Exactly.
Like look at our day
we spent the morning
at the beach in water.
Then we did the air, we
sat together and talked
and we got to know each other.
Now we're doing earth here
we are doing the practicality
of this wonderful
interview sharing.
And then the fire cycle is
we're going to say that was
so fun I'm so thankful.
Thank you.
And all jacked up
and all excited
because look what we did.
So everything follows
the cycles.
But unfortunately it's an
old ancient system that we've
over rid with other business
and our lack of awareness.
So the awareness is simply
asking yourself what element
am I?
Like you clearly carry
fire and you have water.
You've got a strong personality.
But you've got a deep rich --
and you can see it
in your chart.
I'm going to show you later.
You've got lots of water.
I am clearly air.
I can talk.
And I've got this fire
that gets all excited.
And in my healing work when
I'm with people I go very deep
into water, believe it or not.
I can learn to not talk.
I did learn this through
the four elements.
The value of silence.
So we learn which one
is which, whose who.
How do I make you
comfortable in your skin
as an astrologer
as the therapist.
How do I give you permission to
be Lilou and be your total self.
And you leave going I feel so
much more myself, thank you.
And then how do I support you
in going out into the world
and saying, now you
go and contribute this
because the people are
starving for real people
who really can touch our hearts.
Like you did to the woman that
you invited into your home.
If more people would
just say yes to everyone,
come over to my house.
Let's be kind.
Let's share.
Wouldn't this be a
different planet.
If we just assumed
we could trust
and we didn't have
to lock the doors.
>> Lilou Mace: Well,
then we're going
into a whole other conversation
and it's called intuition.
>> Debra Silverman: Yes.
Well, there you have it.
That's water.
So that's good.
So water is intuition.
Those people that have deep
sensing and feel people.
That's the water element.
Air people are the ones that
really ask the questions
and get all the stories out.
And they collect information.
And earth people are the ones
that is really know
how to get things done.
Boy can they manifest and
are they good at details.
You can count on them to be on
time they are always reliable.
And those fire people,
their function is
to get us all excited and say
what are we doing tonight.
We're going to go to a concert.
Can we go play?
Let's have a holiday.
Let's think about a vacation.
Let's have sex.
They get us all jacked
up and excited.
So this is the function and yes
if the world were clean water
and knew how to trust their
intuition, if it was fresh air
and we could talk to
each other, kindly.
And knew how to actually tell
the truth to your partner
who was bugging you with the
way that they want to hear it.
And we knew how to share, earth.
And we knew how fire.
You see fire is also
arguing and fighting.
We're so awkward when
it comes to disagreeing.
We are so mean when
it comes to being able
to just tell the truth and say
you're allowed to be angry.
You're allowed to get feisty.
But do it with your heart open.
Don't scream and yell at me.
Just say you're angry.
So there's art to all
of these four elements.
And that's very much
what I teach
in the workshops that I do.
How do we master water?
How do we learn about stillness?
How do we talk with
words that are poetry
so you want to hear them.
So when the person finishes
telling you the story you go I
learned something.
I remembered it.
And how do we actually,
like, enjoy the food?
That's like one of my favorites.
The earth, the feet
on the ground.
And how do we -- you know,
the art of making love.
Of knowing how to
actually be impassioned.
Knowing how to fight.
We're so funny.
We're just an awkward --
we're an awkward specious.
And we are turning
a corner into --
I mean, if I had my way I
wish I was on the counsel
and I could actually
say can I help
with the human design
just a little bit?
How about we take out the place
where we hurt people we love.
Let's just take that
off the table.
How about we put instead
that when you're really upset
with someone you sit in silence.
And you say I just want
to sit here with you.
I don't want to talk about it.
But I have want to
hold your hand.
And when we're done in silence
we'll review what just happened.
But let me start by
telling you I really care.
And I did whatever
I did by mistake.
Don't get mad.
That's the planet I'm from.
>> Lilou Mace: Thank
you so much, Debra.
This was awesome.
This was such a beautiful
conversation.
What a privilege to have met
you and share this information
with you, my beautiful
go greeters.
We send you much love
from Kauai, right.
Lots of air, fire --
>> Debra Silverman:
Water and earth.
The aloha spirit.
Let it find its way inside of
your heart as you shut this down
and go thanks I feel
so much different.
The future is going be a place
where we all remember how
to pray, how to love,
and how to do friendship.
Coming soon to your
neighborhood.
>> Lilou Mace: Namaste.
>> Debra Silverman: Aloha.
>> Lilou Mace: Aloha.